\hypertarget{overview-of-project-progress}{%
\section{Overview of Project
Progress}\label{overview-of-project-progress}}

\emph{(Describe the overall team goals for the two weeks. These should
be an umbrella for the individual bi-weekly objectives, in prose)}

\hypertarget{achievements}{%
\subsection{Achievements}\label{achievements}}

\emph{(What were the main results from the two weeks. Documents, graphs,
working prototypes/ function. Team learning, bullet point)}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  example one
\item
  example two
\end{itemize}

\hypertarget{risks-issues-and-learning-points}{%
\subsection{Risks, Issues and Learning
Points}\label{risks-issues-and-learning-points}}

\emph{(What Problems have the team faced. How were these overcome? Is
support needed.)}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  example one
\item
  example two
\end{itemize}

\hypertarget{project-management-and-client-actions}{%
\section{Project Management and Client
Actions}\label{project-management-and-client-actions}}

\emph{(What admin tasks need completing. Any Actions that need flagging
up with the client)}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  example one
\item
  example two
\end{itemize}

\hypertarget{individual-work-packages}{%
\section{Individual Work Packages}\label{individual-work-packages}}

\hypertarget{alexander-charles}{%
\subsection{Alexander Charles}\label{alexander-charles}}

\hypertarget{objectives-and-tasks}{%
\subsubsection{Objectives and Tasks}\label{objectives-and-tasks}}

\emph{(What where you individual tasks for the two weeks. Any
outcomes?)}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  example one
\item
  example two
\end{itemize}

\hypertarget{knowledge-gained}{%
\subsubsection{Knowledge Gained}\label{knowledge-gained}}

\emph{(What did you learn? How have you/ will you use this learning to
help the project?)}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  example one
\item
  example two
\end{itemize}

\hypertarget{phoebe-staab}{%
\subsection{Phoebe Staab}\label{phoebe-staab}}

\hypertarget{objectives-and-tasks-1}{%
\subsubsection{Objectives and Tasks}\label{objectives-and-tasks-1}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  example one
\item
  example two
\end{itemize}

\hypertarget{knowledge-gained-1}{%
\subsubsection{Knowledge Gained}\label{knowledge-gained-1}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  example one
\item
  example two
\end{itemize}

\hypertarget{giovanni-tenderini}{%
\subsection{Giovanni Tenderini}\label{giovanni-tenderini}}

\hypertarget{objectives-and-tasks-2}{%
\subsubsection{Objectives and Tasks}\label{objectives-and-tasks-2}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  example one
\item
  example two
\end{itemize}

\hypertarget{knowledge-gained-2}{%
\subsubsection{Knowledge Gained}\label{knowledge-gained-2}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  example one
\item
  example two
\end{itemize}

\hypertarget{requirementss}{%
\section{Requirementss}\label{requirementss}}

\emph{(Describe the overall team goals for the two weeks. These should
be an umbrella for the individual bi-weekly objectives, in prose)}

\hypertarget{requirementss-1}{%
\section{Requirementss}\label{requirementss-1}}

\emph{(Describe the overall team goals for the two weeks. These should
be an umbrella for the individual bi-weekly objectives, in prose)}

\hypertarget{user-research}{%
\section{User Research}\label{user-research}}

this is some nice text bellow is an image.
\cite{blanchard2003macroeconomic}

\hypertarget{this-is-a-sub-heading}{%
\subsection{This is a sub heading}\label{this-is-a-sub-heading}}

\begin{figure}[H]
      \centering
      \includegraphics[trim = 0 0 0 0, clip, width=0.7\textwidth]{persona1.png}
      \caption{This is a persona}
      \label{persona1}
 \end{figure}

this image \cite{rumelt2012good} is of persona1 it is pretty good
\ref{persona1}

\newpage \# Technical Research

\hypertarget{prototyping}{%
\subsection{Prototyping}\label{prototyping}}

Given the importance for the website to display a very accurate,
proficient and effective design a great amount of effort was placed into
prototyping. Various tools were used to turn handmade sketches into a
final prototype. The table below explains which methods have been used
and the reason they have been chosen:

\begin{figure}[H]
      \centering
      \includegraphics[trim = 0 0 0 0, clip, width=0.7\textwidth]{ph19.png}
      \caption{Prototyping methods and tools used}
 \end{figure}

\hypertarget{content-management-system}{%
\subsection{Content management system}\label{content-management-system}}

A content management system (CMS) is defined as a piece of software that
is designed to provide some level of automation for the tasks required
to effectively manage content. It is usually server-based, interacting
with content stored in a repository, which may be located on the same
server \cite{p1} . In web development, the ultimate purpose of such
tools is to allow an administrative user to edit the content on web page
without having to append HTML directly.

The CMS used for the IXN project was WordPress. There are other free,
open-source CMS options, such as Drupal or Joomla, but WordPress was
selected due to a few critical advantages. These can be boiled down to:
1) Better support options and availability, 2) Superior access to themes
and add-ons and 3) Easy website maintenance.~

\hypertarget{support-options-and-availability}{%
\subsubsection{Support options and
availability~}\label{support-options-and-availability}}

WordPress support is available on a plethora of developer support
channels for web developers and beginners alike on a myriad of
platforms. These include docs, handbooks, codex, Slack channels and
Stack Exchange to name a few. Being the most popular CMS, there are
entire websites dedicated to support in addition to thousands of online
tutorials. Unlike WordPress, finding expert support for Joomla or Drupal
is not quite so simple. All of the platforms provide extensive primary
source documentation, but~because of WordPress's popularity, it
outshines its competitors as far as ease of access to efficient
troubleshooting.~

\hypertarget{access-to-themes-and-add-ons}{%
\subsubsection{Access to themes and
add-ons~}\label{access-to-themes-and-add-ons}}

While Drupal and Joomla also both offer themes and add-ons, the access
and variety are not comparable to WordPress, which offers around 40,000
additional plugins. In Joomla, there is a feature that allows users to
add install from web features for extensions. However, in order to
access a template, a user would still have to manually search templates
and then install them by adding their URL, which is a bit more arduous
that the streamlined WordPress process using the dashboard. Worse still,
Drupal users have to have to exit their site, search for the module and
theme they want, find the zip file URL and submit the URL to the Modules
or Themes page to install them.~

Not only does WordPress take minutes to install, but also the dashboard
interface after the install is simple and easy to navigate. This is
especially useful if you are developing a simple site for a client and
they want to be able to manage and modify the site easily. When
WordPress undergoes updates, the process is seamless and developers
usually won't have to make any changes. It should also be mentioned that
WordPress has an app from which one can manage their site. Joomla's
post-install panel is not as intuitive and has many more features.
Seasoned web developers may~prefer this, but for simplicity, WordPress
wins out. Drupal offers users `distributions', particular to the type of
site that they want to develop. This could be a bit confusing for
beginners. Finally, Drupal's updates can require developer knowledge
\cite{p2} \cite{p3} \cite{p4} .

\hypertarget{bedrock-and-trellis}{%
\subsubsection{Bedrock and Trellis}\label{bedrock-and-trellis}}

Bedrock is a secure way to install and manage WordPress, implementing an
alternative to the conventional WordPress structuring.

Traditionally, WordPress can be installed on both a local device and
also a production server, having a Git repository for a sites theme. In
this case, deployment means a Git pull of the repository from the server
or FTP of the theme. In some cases, the whole site, including WordPress
files can be kept under Git as well \cite{p6} .

This approach is troublesome because when WordPress/plugin updates
occur, the production site can be broken. To illustrate, after writing
code in order update some updated WordPress or plugin functionality, it
is time to deploy. When a developer does so, they must install or update
the correct version of the plugin on the production site, compile
assets, update the theme on the remote server, and then ensure the
plugin has been activated on the production site. This manual and
laborious approach is quite error prone and can lead to downtime.

Bedrock is a modern WordPress stack that brings more automation to web
development and site maintenance and does so using a better folder
structure. (fig 1) It uses PHP doting for environment variables, which
are part of the twelve-factor app, a methodology created by Heroku for
building web apps\cite{p5}. The main goal of this methodology is to
improve work on a growing codebase. The details of underlying principles
of this methodology are beyond the scope of this work, but can be found
in reference 6 \cite{p8} .

\begin{figure}[H]
      \centering
      \includegraphics[trim = 0 0 0 0, clip, width=0.7\textwidth]{ph20.png}
      \caption{Difference between Bedrock and standard Wordpress Structure}
 \end{figure}

Composer, a tool for dependency management in PHP, is used to pull in
both dotenv and WordPress, along with WordPress plugins \cite{p7} .
Suppose a developer has a project that depends on a number of libraries
and some of those libraries depend on other libraries. In essence,
Composer allows the developer to declare the libraries they depend on
and finds out the correct versions of packages needed and installs them
into the project \cite{p8} .

Bedrock also makes use of Capistrano, a remote server automation tool,
for automated deployments \cite{p9}. Vagrant is used to implement
easy-to-use development environments. It is a virtual environment
manager with a focus on automation \cite{p10} . Vagrant provides work
environments that are easy to configure, reproducible, and transportable
controlled by a single reliable workflow. To do so, machines are
provisioned on top of a virtualizer, such as VMWare or VirtualBox. Then,
industry-standard provisioning tools such as shell scripts, Chef, or
Puppet, can automatically install and configure software on the virtual
machine \cite{p10} .

The combination of Ansible, an IT automation/server configuration tool,
and bedrock give us Trellis \cite{p11}. Ansible is used for automation
of cloud provisioning, configuration management, application deployment,
and many other IT needs \cite{p12}. The combination of the Bedrock
structure and Ansible automation means that Trellis allows WordPress
developers to create and manage more professional server environments
almost automatically.

An alternative to using Trellis would be MAMP, which has distinct
disadvantages. With MAMP, a developer is tied to the versions of the
software that MAMP precludes. Updates may be made, to PHP 5.6 for
example, but the local MAMP install would be different from your shared
host, or VPS, or dedicated server. The differences between the
environments of your host machine with MAMP and that of a remote server
can cause issues during deployment. This can also cause problems when
something goes wrong on your production server and you can't replicate
it on your local machine or vice versa \cite{p13} . Trellis creates
staging and production environments, meaning that's the
staging/production server matches your development virtual machine.

\hypertarget{front-end}{%
\subsection{Front-End}\label{front-end}}

As the name would suggest, front-end development encompasses the
creation of the parts of a website with which the user interacts,
through the use of technologies such as HTML, CSS, and JavaScript. In
other words, this is where the site's content, styling and dynamic
interface is coded.

HyperText Markup Language, or HTML, is the backbone of the IXN website.
This is where the site's content is kept. It is in the HTML documents
where a developer uses PHP to connect the site with the content
management system.

The site's styling was done using SCSS, a version of cascading style
sheet (CSS) written for SASS, a program written in Ruby that assembles
CSS style sheets for a browser. The advantage of using SASS is that is
has added functionality, allowing the use of variables, nested rules,
mixins and more within CSS-compatible syntax \cite{p14} .

Because the IXN website will be accessed from many different devices
with different screen sizes, responsive design principle were used
during front end development. In order to achieve a consistent,
responsive interface, Bootstrap 4, a front-end web framework based on
CSS styling, was used. It has set of fixed classes that allow developers
to quickly create applications that scale to devices of all sizes.
Additionally, Bootstrap aids developers in adding common components such
as navigation bars and panels to a site. It has become the industry
standard for responsive web development \cite{p15} .

In order to add dynamic functionality to the IXN website JavaScript (JS)
was used. JS is a front-end development language which many websites
employ and it is supported by all modern web browsers. JQuery is a
JavaScript library that simplifies animation, event handling and much
more. It was also used to add functionality to the IXN website
\cite{p16}.

\begin{figure}[H]
      \centering
      \includegraphics[trim = 0 0 0 0, clip, width=0.7\textwidth]{ph18.png}
      \caption{Front-End and Back-End interaction}
 \end{figure}

\hypertarget{back-end}{%
\subsection{Back-End}\label{back-end}}

Back end development refers to the server -side code written to ensure
that a site is robust and usable. This is the code that is run on the
server and is responsible for things such as database interactions,
logic, and calculations. For the IXN website, PHP was used for
server-side scripting in order to query the MariaDB database \cite{p17}
.

Since WordPress was used as the content management system, it was also
deployed on our server so that content could be updated via the
user-friendly dashboard. This would then update the database, and
strategically placed PHP embedded in HTML would then be used to display
the content on the appropriate part of the site.

Blade, a templating engine was used in conjunction with PHP, which can
be detected when the file extension blade.php is used. Blade employs the
concepts of template inheritance and sections. The @section notation
allows for easy organization of a site and it can be see embedded in the
html. The @extends notation can be used in order to inherit other
layouts. These tools are extremely convenient for effectively organizing
code \cite{p18} .

\begin{figure}[H]
      \centering
      \includegraphics[trim = 0 0 0 0, clip, width=0.7\textwidth]{ph17.png}
      \caption{Front-End and Back-End interaction}
 \end{figure}

\hypertarget{requirementss-2}{%
\section{Requirementss}\label{requirementss-2}}

\emph{(Describe the overall team goals for the two weeks. These should
be an umbrella for the individual bi-weekly objectives, in prose)}

\hypertarget{implementation}{%
\section{Implementation}\label{implementation}}

\hypertarget{development-tools}{%
\subsection{Development Tools}\label{development-tools}}

After prototyping using Sketch was completed, each team member took
responsibility for the development of specific sections of the site.
CodePen was used to make each component for the website before all of
the sections were integrated into the appropriate page layouts. The
benefit of using CodePen is that HTML, CSS and JavaScript code can be
written in the browser, and compiled in real time, with the result
visible in the same window. \cite{p19} Ultimately, it allows for faster
development and easy troubleshooting.

From CodePen, the front-end code was integrated into the site's pages
using text editors such as Atom and Sublime, each member had their own
preferences. This was where PHP was added. In the later stages of
development, all of the code was edited and written using text editors.

\#\#Code Organization

\hypertarget{remote-server}{%
\subsubsection{Remote Server}\label{remote-server}}

Trellis was used to set up a remote server to be used for the IXN
website's development. When Trellis sets up a local development
environment, it automatically creates a server, provisions it, and
installs WordPress \cite{p21} . This is done by Vagrant in Trellis, by
which a Vagrantfile uses the Ansible provisioner to run dev.yml to set
up a virtual machine on the WordPress site using VirtualBox \cite{p22} .

This was done through a few simple steps. First the site was configured
based on the WordPress Sites docs. Then,
group\_vars/development/wordpress\_sites.yml and
group\_vars/development/vault.yml were edited. Finally, vagrant up was
run from the command line from the Trellis folder in the site directory.

To create a remote server from the remote development environment, a
couple of extra steps were needed: Provision and Deploy. Provisioning
was done in order to ensure MariaDB and Nginx were installed, Nginx was
configured, and a database was set up for the IXN site. The server was
provisioned using server.yml. Deployment was done using deploy.yml which
took the codebase from GitHub, ran Composer, created config files and
reloaded Nginx. \cite{p23}.

\hypertarget{github}{%
\subsubsection{GitHub}\label{github}}

Finally, GitHub was used for collaboration. Git is a version control
system, allowing revisions in the code to be stored neatly and
chronologically. The changes can then be seen by other developers who
can download and modify it. \cite{p20} GitHub is the community of
developers and where they store their work.

For the IXN website there was a group repository where code was shared
and updated. In order to organize to code and ensure the integrity of
the site, five branches were made. There was a branch made for each
individual member (Alexcode, PhoebeCode and GioCode). This is where code
was written the majority of the time. When updates were finalized, code
from these branches was then pushed to the Dev branch. After this code
was reviewed and if there were no clashes, the code was then pushed to
the master branch which housed the cleanest and most current version of
the site at any given time.

\begin{figure}[H]
      \centering
      \includegraphics[trim = 0 0 0 0, clip, width=0.7\textwidth]{ph15.png}
      \caption{Post implementation annotated MoSCoW}
 \end{figure}

\# Site Map \& Page Flow

\begin{figure}[H]
      \centering
      \includegraphics[trim = 0 0 0 0, clip, width=0.7\textwidth]{ph16.png}
      \caption{Site Map}
 \end{figure}

\hypertarget{testing}{%
\section{Testing}\label{testing}}

\hypertarget{compatibility-responsiveness}{%
\subsection{Compatibility \&
Responsiveness}\label{compatibility-responsiveness}}

The team underwent research on which browser simulators to use while for
testing compatibility and responsiveness of the IXN website.
BrowserStack because of its free trial plan and the span of emulators
was the tool chosen to perform the tests \cite{g6}. BrowserStack, in
fact, offered the possibility of testing the IXN website on a multitude
of Operating System, Devices and Browsers. Moreover, to integrate and
broaden the results of the tests the team tested the IXN project on
physical devices as well. The results obtained for desktops and laptops
are displayed below:

\begin{figure}[H]
      \centering
      \includegraphics[trim = 0 0 0 0, clip, width=0.7\textwidth]{ph7.png}
      \caption{Laptop/Desktop browser testing results}
 \end{figure}

As regards testing on mobile devices BrowserStack was the platform
chosen. Moreover, as not all of the emulators were available on free
trial, physical device testing also played a very important part. The
webpage appears fully responsive on modern software versions, however,
as occurred with the desktop devices older versions of software (around
2012/2013) struggle with the desing, SCSS and Bootstrap 4. The mobile
testing results are displayed below:

\begin{figure}[H]
      \centering
      \includegraphics[trim = 0 0 0 0, clip, width=0.7\textwidth]{ph8.png}
      \caption{Laptop/Desktop browser testing results}
 \end{figure}

\hypertarget{server-stability-issues}{%
\subsection{Server Stability Issues}\label{server-stability-issues}}

The team has encountered issues in launching the website trough
Microsoft Azure. The website sporadically shows that the page is not
redirecting properly or that the page is in a redirect loop. The problem
seems to disappear after the page is reloaded a second time. The team
was not able to fix this matter. Future teams working in the IXN project
will have to improve the relationship between the website and the Azure
servers to increase stability and avoid the occasional redirect errors.

\hypertarget{acceptance-testing}{%
\subsection{Acceptance Testing}\label{acceptance-testing}}

The IXN User Acceptance Testing (UAT) has been generated around the
requirements of the website \cite{g7} . In fact, Use Cases have been
used to pick and prepare tasks for users to perform while testing. The
procedure the IXN team has followed for User Acceptance Testing is the
following: 1. Design tests for users to cover functional scenarios of
the website 2. Select a varied background testing team, in accordance to
the main users of the website 3. Perform the tests and record the
results 4. Bug fix with the faults encountered, or improve the defective
features features

For the IXN website UAT 35 individuals of varied technological knowledge
were asked to complete the tasks given and the time of completion was
recorded. The table below summarizes the results obtained:

\begin{figure}[H]
      \centering
      \includegraphics[trim = 0 0 0 0, clip, width=0.7\textwidth]{ph4.png}
      \caption{User Acceptance Testing summarized results}
 \end{figure}

\hypertarget{error-guessing}{%
\subsection{Error Guessing}\label{error-guessing}}

Error guessing has been put into practice by making the most of the
expertise of fellow UCL Computer Science Students. The IXN team asked
members of the department of Computer Science to come up with, consider
and assess circumstances in which the software behind the website might
have had problems in coping with the requests made. The efficiency of
this testing technique depends on the tester's abilities. In the case of
the IXN website some minor bugs were spotted in the news section.
Consequently, the team went on to fixing them.

\hypertarget{conclusion}{%
\section{Conclusion}\label{conclusion}}

\hypertarget{requirements-accomplishments}{%
\subsection{Requirements
Accomplishments}\label{requirements-accomplishments}}

Comparing the initial MoSCoW to the achievements obtained by the team it
is visible that all of the ``Must'' (in green) and ``Should'' (in
yellow)have requirements have been fulfilled. An extra ``Could'' (in
red) feature has been included to give a more comprehensive user
experience. An annotated MoSCoW, explaining how the requirements have
been implemented, can be found below:

\begin{figure}[H]
      \centering
      \includegraphics[trim = 0 0 0 0, clip, width=0.7\textwidth]{ph5.png}
      \caption{Post implementation annotated MoSCoW}
 \end{figure}

\hypertarget{team-achievements}{%
\subsection{Team achievements}\label{team-achievements}}

Teamwork always has its advantages and disadvantages. The IXN team had
to face some issues related to the background knowledge, the workload
division and the different culture of its team members. There have been
times of disagreement between team members, however, through open minded
discussion, honesty and respect every individual gained experience and
skills from the creation of the website and cooperating with other
people.

The team was happy with the results obtained with the website, some
gains in the quality of the website could have been obtained by having
access to some costly design, implementation and testing tools. However,
the team was proud of demonstrating that, even with a very limited
budget, effort and determination can make up for not having full access
to all the latest tools and platforms.

\hypertarget{critical-evaluation-future-development}{%
\subsection{Critical Evaluation \& Future
Development}\label{critical-evaluation-future-development}}

The project was highly design focused. Therefore, the team tried hard to
make it attractive, simple to use and professional with the latest tools
and devices available at this day and age. However, in a few years' time
even all the effort put in by the team will result outdated, obsolete
and the website would loose its efficacy \cite{g8} . The role of the
next teams working on the IXN website will, therefore, be to build upon
the foundations that have been created by updating and continuously
rejuvenating the website. A task besides the design features of the
website that future teams will have to take into account is to improve
Azure server stability, to avoid occasional redirect errors that the
website is currently facing. Moreover, the additional and less requested
requirements of the ``Could'' section of the MoSCoW can be taken
consideration and implemented. A commented version of the ``Could''
portion, explaining how the features can be realized, is present below:

\begin{figure}[H]
      \centering
      \includegraphics[trim = 0 0 0 0, clip, width=0.7\textwidth]{ph6.png}
      \caption{Possible features to be implemented in the future}
 \end{figure}
